Now if you connecting one device to another you once again need some kind of media that allows for a
data transmission from once device to another.
In other words you need some type of data link to allow data to be transferred from one device to another.
I've already shown you Ethernet.
This is a very common type of Ethernet this is Cat 5G or Category 5.
We'll talk more about Ethernet later but Cat 5.
This is an example of Cat 6 Ethernet cabling unsheltered twisted pay Ethan cabling like this is probably
the most common type of cabling that you're going to encounter but it didn't stop there.
Now Ethernet didn't start with until that twisted peak cabling.
It started with 10 base five cabling very big cabling that's not easy to use.
It actually has these black markings on the cable and that's where you would use a wire tap or vampire
tap if you prefer to connect to the network.
You couldn't just connect anywhere you had to connect on these black markings if you wanted a good signal.
And this is how that would look.
Notice this crazy large transceiver.
This is how you would connect to the network.
So to give you an idea of scale.
I've got a one dollar US banknote so one dollar.
He has a British pound so notice how big that is.
This is massive cabling.
Really really old technology.
And it gets worse to actually connect your P.C. to the network.
You needed a drop cable like this so you would have to connect that to the transceiver.
And as you can see it came up there.
This is very thick cabling not very easy to use
and that would connect to your network called so you would have this kind of setup.
That's how you would get on to the network.
It's an absolute nightmare.
This cabling very hard to work with.
It was very temperamental.
This is using what's called a bus network in a bus network.
All the devices are connected on one long cable like this nightmare.
I'll demonstrate this in a separate video where I'll build a 10 base five network and show you one that's
working.
But for the moment just notice how ridiculously difficult this cable is to work with how thick it is.
This is called thick net for a good reason because it's so thick.
So after we had thick net they then fortunately developed for net or ten base two.
And if you ever wondered why it's called the net versus thick net just notice the difference in the
size of these cables.
This is the net versus thick net.
This cabling is much much thinner than this cabling but also used a bus topology also had various issues.
Today we tend to use UDP so until the twisted pay cabling like this.
That's very common.
Or we use fibre cables and they're different types of fibre cables.
I'll talk more about fibre cables later.
We have multi-modal fibre and single mode fibre.
But the idea is is that I have a network interface card like this or more modern example like this.
This gets inserted into a computer.
And this is how I gain access to the network a network interface code has a mac address or Media Access
Control address that is essentially a burnt in address burnt in by the manufacturer that identifies
this network interface code on the ether network.
If you don't have a network interface card in your laptop you could use a USP to Ethan and adapter like
this.
So that would allow you to connect to the network using ethernet or once again using wireless.
Here's an example of a wireless network interface card.
You essentially need a way to get a node onto the network and a network interface called is the way
that you connect yourself to the ether net network.
A lot of devices like iPhones as an example have built in network interface cards.
They connect directly onto the wireless and they have something like this bolt inside of them that allows
them to connect to the wireless network.
Remember we are transmitting data from one device to another using some kind of media which could be
the air could be physical cabling.